head of the United Nations an Antonio
GES warned that any military incursion
into Rafa would have devastating
consequences on the Palestinian people
who'd first fled there for safety and
under the instruction of the Israeli
Army a military assault on Rafa would be
an unbearable escalation killing
thousands more civilians and forcing
hundreds of thousands to
flee it would have a devastating impact
on Palestinians in Gaza with serious
repercussions on the occupied West Bank
and across the wider
region all members of the security Cil
and many other governments have clearly
expressed their opposition to such an
operation I appeal for all those with
influence over Israel to do everything
in their power to prevent
it Gabriel alander joins us now live
from the UN and the UN Secretary General
with some clear and some might think
strong words about
Rafa yeah that's right of course he's
saying as you just heard there it would
be could lead to devastating
consequences if Israel goes forward with
this military operation in Rafa he said
forcing as you just heard there hundreds
of thousands of people to flee of course
flee where that is the question I think
the Secretary General knows the answer
to that very well there is nowhere uh to
flee to and nowhere safe in in Gaza
that's something that he's repeated over
and over and over again for months now I
think the reason that you heard the
Secretary General speak out uh today is
because he clearly sees this being a
critical moment as these talks continue
for the release of captives and a
cessation of hostilities that this is a
very critical moment right now and
that's why he wanted to lend his voice
to this it's important to point out
again The Wider context here the
Secretary General does not speak to
Benjamin n Yahoo uh the prime minister
of Israel will not accept the secretary
General's phone calls they have not even
spoken once uh since October 7th it's
not because the Secretary General
doesn't want to speak to Netanyahu it's
just simply that Netanyahu doesn't want
to speak to him so this is the way that
the Secretary General can speak to the
wider world and he hopes that his
message is heard uh everywhere that it
will make an impact indeed uh the
Secretary General was also very clear on
a sort of De developing Story coming out
of the Gaza Strip these issues of mass
Graves which are now being
uncovered yeah that's right he's clearly
very concerned about this we've heard
from the secretary General's
spokesperson uh talking about concerns
over this over the last week or so but
this is the first time we've actually
heard from the Secretary General himself
uh and he cited
390 uh bodies reportedly being exuded
from al- Nasser hospital and now the
Secretary General clearly calling for
what he said say an independent
International investigation with
forensic expertise to be allowed into
Gaza uh immediately to begin this uh
process of an investigation on this Mass
Graves to see who is responsible the
problem of course is Israel controls
access to the Gaza Strip and without
Israel's permission it uh is almost
impossible to get experts in there but
clearly uh the Secretary General is
calling on an international inves ation
the issue is Will Israel agree to it and
open their borders to it and what can
the Secretary General do to put pressure
on Israel uh to accept some sort of
international independent that's a key
word independent investigation gab under
there at unhq in New York thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler